<h1>SC Bass Fishing</h1>

South Carolina is well known for some of its major reservoirs that commonly hold the Nation’s top bass fishing tournaments. Just in 2020, Bassmaster held an Open event on Lake Hartwell and an Elite Series event on Santee Cooper. We connected with Bassmaster Elite Series angler Patrick Walters and asked his opinion on the top bass fishing waterbodies in his home State of South Carolina based on quality of fish, not necessarily current popularity. Some of them might surprise you! We have listed our top bass fishing lakes in the State as well as a couple honorable mentions. Give a new waterbody a try and make sure you travel with good information and the right tackle and technique using Omnia’s Shop-by-Lake website. Here’s our top bass fishing lakes in South Carolina:

<h1>Lake Hartwell</h1>
Lake Hartwell was an easy selection based on its size and ability to produce large bass. Hartwell is a man-made lake that sits on the border of Georgia and South Carolina. The reservoir was created by the Hartwell Dam after the convergence of the Savannah, Tugaloo, and Seneca Rivers. Hartwell has over 56,000 surface acres, a max depth of 185 feet and an average depth of 45 feet. Like other lakes in this area, fishing this part of the lake is heavily influenced by the movement of blueback herring. Bass can be caught in locations of the blue herring bait movements using techniques like j-walkers, crankbaits, and Carolina rigs.


<h1>Lake Murray</h1>
Lake Murray is located in the center of South Carolina and has become one of the State’s most popular vacation destinations likely due to the clean water it holds and its location. Although it has been getting a considerable amount of pressure, Murray continues to be a great fishery. In addition to offering an opportunity at a lunker largemouth bass, these waters are home to crappie, bluegill, and striped bass. Largemouth bass are the most popular fish to target on Murray, however they are not an easy fish to catch. In the Saluda River portion of the lake, bass tend to chase the blueback herring. This is an incredibly difficult way of fishing as the herring roam the open water and can disappear from day to day. Many anglers find more success on the main lake side since fish behave in a much more patterned manner and can be caught in creek arms chasing shad, or on points feeding The crappies and bluegills in Murray Lake are commonly caught on brush piles off main lake points and flats.

<h1>Santee Cooper/Lake Marion</h1>
Lake Marion is the largest lake in South Carolina and offers exceptional fishing opportunities.  The Lake has over 110,00 surface-acres of water and over 300-miles of shoreline.  This massive Lake was created by damming the Santee River and is a major body of water consider part of Santee Cooper.  The largest largemouth bass was caught in this lake with a weight of over 16 pounds.  Anglers can also catch strippers, catfish, panfish, crappie, white bass, perch, and pickerel.  A 2020 rescheduled Bass Master Elite event took place on Lake Marion launching from the John C Land III Public Boat Launch.  Travel with caution because the submerged stumps can take a toll on your lower unit!


<h1>Lake Greenwood</h1>
Lake Greenwood is one of South Carolina’s most coveted bodies of water. The State DNR focuses energy on the care the Lake’s fish populations and the water quality. Greenwood Lake allows for top quality Largemouth Bass, Smallmouth Bass, Channel Catfish, Crappie, Bluegill, and Striped Bass. There are also some shore fishing opportunities that are most productive when shore anglers can find points and submerged brush.


<h1>Wateree Lake</h1>
Wateree Lake is roughly 13,000 acres and contains Largemouth Bass, Crappie, Bluegill, Perch, and Chain Pickerel. This is a popular place to vacation and camp, with many options for an overnight trip. There are boat rentals in the area and multiple boat ramps on the lake. Fishing for Largemouth Bass is the most common species to target in this lake but there’s also an opportunity to catch large strippers. Wateree will produce both size and numbers at period of the year so it was an easy decision to put the Lake on our list of top South Carolina bass fisheries.
